Yes — I dug through the app package and stress-tested it as far as this environment allows.

Bottom line: the quant side does not currently work as a live tradable system in the artifact you uploaded. The codebase has thoughtful safeguards, but the packaged evidence points to a quant engine that is either inactive, abstaining, or not trained on the main tradeable horizons.

What I was able to verify:

unpacked the monorepo
inspected the core API/trader/quant code paths
checked the packaged ML manifests and backtest outputs
syntax-checked the Python backtest modules

What I could not fully do here:

I could not run the full TypeScript app end-to-end because the container has no pnpm installed and no network access to fetch it, so I could not install workspace deps and boot the whole stack.
Main verdict

If your intent is:

“quant model makes real directional predictions and the app trades them profitably across market regimes”

then the answer is no, not in its current packaged state.

The strongest reasons are:

Quant brain is disabled by default
In shared/trading-frictions.json, quant_brain.enabled is false, and trading-constants.ts exports that setting directly. So the quant path is not the default active brain.

Backtest says the 5m quant model produced 0 trades
In artifacts/ml-engine/models/backtest_report.json, the only tradeable timeframe with a dataset (5m) shows:

n_oos_rows: 250
n_skips: 250
n_trades: 0
deploy verdict: false

That is the clearest signal in the package: the model is not passing its own tradability filter.

Most tradeable timeframes have no dataset snapshot
The same backtest report marks:

1h: no_dataset
2h: no_dataset
6h: no_dataset
1d: no_dataset

So even before judging quality, most of the tradeable horizon coverage is simply missing.

The pooled 5m model underperforms its own baseline
In artifacts/ml-engine/models/__pooled__/5m/20260421T131802Z/manifest.json, the model’s metrics are worse than the baseline on the important probability-quality metrics:

model auc: ~0.412 vs baseline ~0.620
model log_loss: ~0.467 vs baseline ~0.253
model brier: ~0.0241 vs baseline ~0.0228

So even where a model exists, the evidence in the artifact does not show a better-than-baseline predictive model.

Specific bugs / logic problems I found
1) Cancelled anomaly trades appear to lose the entry fee permanently

In paper-trader.ts, when a position is cancelled for an anomalous price move, the code refunds pos.positionSize to cash, but not the entry fee that was deducted at open.

That means a trade marked as a feed glitch / anomaly still leaks money. If anomaly cancellation is supposed to mean “ignore bad data,” then this is a real accounting bug.

2) Daily loss reset uses UTC date, not exchange/session/local trading day

checkRiskLimits() uses:

new Date().toISOString().slice(0, 10)

That resets day-based controls at UTC midnight, not at a configurable trading session boundary. For crypto, maybe that is acceptable if intentional — but if the dashboard/user expects local-day behavior, the daily loss limit will reset at the “wrong” time.

3) Quant system is over-gated relative to what the model can emit

The stack has multiple gates:

directional probability threshold
directional edge threshold
expected return must exceed minimum
confidence gate
TP-distance floor
EV-vs-cost gate
counter-trend gate
fleet brake
consecutive-loss block

Individually these are sane. Combined with the current model quality, they effectively collapse to no trades. The backtest result confirms that.

So the bug is not one broken if statement — it is a system-level deadlock:

model outputs weak/stable-biased signals
gates reject everything
result: quant “exists,” but does not function as a trading engine
4) Some model metrics look suspiciously too perfect

Several 1m per-coin manifests show near-perfect or perfect results, for example worldcoin-wld/1m/.../manifest.json reports:

directional_accuracy: 1.0
almost zero log loss
same baseline also essentially perfect

That is not automatically proof of leakage, but it is a strong red flag for one of:

trivial label structure
extremely imbalanced or degenerate target
duplicated information between features and target
too-small / too-easy test folds

Since 1m is not even in the tradeable timeframes, these results also do not help the live trading case.

Overall logic assessment
What is good

There is real engineering effort here:

shared frictions contract between TS trader and Python backtester
slippage/fee-aware logic
drawdown and daily loss controls
ATR-based SL/TP geometry
fallback from quant to LLM when no model exists
backtest deploy gate
shadow / cutover thinking

That part is better than a lot of “AI trading bot” projects.

What is not working

The actual quant edge is not demonstrated.

Right now the system looks like this:

architecture says “quant”
safety rails are present
model packaging exists
but packaged evidence shows no tradable edge
and on most main timeframes, no trained snapshot exists

So the product is closer to an experimental trading research framework than a working quant trader.

Stress-test conclusion

If I had to give it a hard rating:

Architecture quality: 7/10
Safety/risk plumbing: 7/10
Actual quant readiness: 2/10
Chance it currently works “as intended” as a profitable quant app: low

What I would fix first
Make the quant engine prove it can trade:
get nonzero trades in 5m backtest
then positive expectancy after costs
then extend to 1h/2h/6h/1d
Fix anomaly cancellation accounting:
refund the full open cash impact if you truly treat it as invalid data
Remove or relax gates only after measuring skip reasons:
right now the system is probably over-filtering weak signals into zero output
Investigate the suspiciously perfect 1m manifests:
verify no leakage
inspect class balance
compare against dumb baselines like “always stable”
Stop treating directional accuracy as proof of profitability:
the package already hints this, but the live system still feels too accuracy-centric