I did the deeper pass.

Main conclusion

The quant path is failing for two separate reasons:

1. The packaged backtest is stale / logically mismatched with the live quant brain.
2. Even the current pooled 5m model is basically collapsed into “stable” on almost every row.

So the app is not just “over-gated.” The bigger issue is that the model output is nearly unusable, and the backtest is no longer faithfully measuring the live decision logic.

The most important finding

The offline backtester and the live quant brain are not using the same decision rule anymore.

Backtester logic

In artifacts/ml-engine/app/backtest/simulator.py:

decide_direction() picks the 3-class argmax
if argmax is stable, it skips immediately

That means the backtest path is effectively:

choose max of {p_down, p_stable, p_up}
if stable wins, no trade
Live quant brain logic

In artifacts/api-server/src/lib/quant-brain.ts:

it does not use pure 3-class argmax anymore
it compares only probUp vs probDown
it emits a directional signal only if:
directional prob ≥ 0.08
directional edge ≥ 0.02
|expectedReturnPct| clears the minimum
expected-return sign agrees with direction

That is a major architectural divergence.

So the packaged result of 250 skips / 0 trades is coming from a backtest engine that no longer mirrors the live quant decision path. That makes the current backtest_report.json not trustworthy as a cutover decision tool.

What I reproduced on the current 5m pooled model

I loaded the latest pooled 5m model and scored the latest 5m dataset snapshot directly.

Results on 590 rows:

pure argmax:
stable: 581
up: 5
down: 4
live quant-brain directional emission:
stable: 590
up: 0
down: 0

So even with the newer directional logic, the model still emits zero usable directional signals on the packaged 5m dataset.

That is the core failure.

Why the live quant brain still emits zero signals

From quant-brain.ts, the live signal requires all of these:

dirProb >= 0.08
dirEdge >= 0.02
abs(expectedReturnPct) >= minExpRetPct
expected-return sign matches side

On the current pooled 5m model, none of the rows pass that signal test.

What the actual model probabilities look like

The latest pooled 5m model is overwhelmingly stable-biased:

Raw booster mean probabilities across the dataset were roughly:

p_down: 0.0051
p_stable: 0.9864
p_up: 0.0085

After calibration:

p_down: 0.0350
p_stable: 0.9597
p_up: 0.0054

So this is not a case of “signals exist but gates are too strict.”
The model is mostly saying:

“stable with near certainty”

The strongest root cause I found
The calibrator/model combo has effectively collapsed the 5m pooled model into stable

The latest pooled model manifest at:

artifacts/ml-engine/models/__pooled__/5m/20260421T131802Z/manifest.json

already hinted something was wrong:

AUC worse than baseline
log loss worse than baseline
Brier worse than baseline

When I scored the model directly, that suspicion became concrete:

almost every row gets probStable ≈ 1
directional probabilities are tiny
therefore no live directional calls survive

This is the single biggest practical failure in the quant stack.

Second major issue: the backtest is measuring the wrong thing

This is the most serious logic bug in the whole quant evaluation pipeline.

Offline simulator

artifacts/ml-engine/app/backtest/simulator.py

uses decide_direction() based on argmax
skips immediately when stable wins
Live decision engine

artifacts/api-server/src/lib/quant-brain.ts

uses directional preference logic
uses probUp, probDown, directional edge, expected return
no longer relies on stable argmax to decide trading direction

So the backtest report is currently testing an older quant entry logic, not the one your live app would actually use.

That means:

deploy gate can reject or approve based on outdated logic
live-vs-backtest drift comparisons become misleading
the “0 trades” conclusion is directionally true, but the reasoning path is wrong
Third major issue: anomaly cancellation accounting bug is real

In artifacts/api-server/src/lib/paper-trader.ts, anomaly-cancel logic does this:

deletes the position
marks trade as cancelled
refunds pos.positionSize to cash

But at entry, cash had already been reduced by:

positionSize
plus entry fee

So anomaly cancellation refunds the size but not the entry fee.

That means a trade cancelled as bad market data still causes a small real loss.

If anomaly means “invalidate the trade,” the entry fee should also be reversed.

Fourth issue: confidence semantics changed, but the backtest didn’t follow

Live quant brain now does something good:

In quant-brain.ts:

for up, confidence = probUp
for down, confidence = probDown
for stable, confidence = probStable
raw max class confidence is only debug info

That is correct.

But the backtester in simulator.py still uses the old-style max-prob approach through decide_direction() and then confidence from argmax winner. That is another reason it is out of sync with live logic.

Fifth issue: the model’s expected return is tiny and unhelpful

In the pooled 5m manifest:

class return means are about:
down: -0.561%
stable: -0.00175%
up: +0.460%

Those are not terrible by themselves.

But because the model puts almost all mass on stable, the weighted expectedReturnPct stays near zero and often slightly negative. That prevents live directional emission and later EV gating.

So again:

not enough directional mass
not enough edge
no signal
Why this is happening structurally

The code comments already say it:

In quant-brain.ts, there is a note that the early-stage model is heavily stable-biased because very few candles exceed the outcome threshold.

That lines up with what I found.

Likely causes:

threshold too hard relative to short-horizon noise
class imbalance toward stable
pooled model across very different meme/alt coins
calibration amplifying the stable collapse
5m horizon with too little predictive structure in current feature set
What to fix first
1) Fix the backtester so it mirrors live quant-brain exactly

Highest priority.

artifacts/ml-engine/app/backtest/simulator.py should not use pure argmax anymore.

It should replicate the live logic from quant-brain.ts:

directional side from probUp vs probDown
directional prob threshold
directional edge threshold
expected return sign agreement
minimum expected return threshold

Until that is fixed, your backtest report is not a reliable deployment artifact.

2) Investigate why the pooled 5m model collapses to stable

Second highest priority.

I would test these in order:

lower 5m outcome threshold
inspect 3-class label balance in the 5m dataset
compare calibrated vs uncalibrated predictions
temporarily disable calibrator to see if collapse is caused by isotonic mapping
train per-coin instead of pooled where possible
evaluate binary directional heads instead of 3-class stable/up/down
3) Fix anomaly cancellation accounting

In paper-trader.ts, anomaly-cancel should reverse the full entry cash impact, including entry fee.

4) Stop using current backtest report as a cutover signal

Right now it is stale relative to the live decision path.

Hard verdict after the second pass

The quant system currently fails in this order:

Model quality / output collapse
The 5m model mostly predicts stable.
Offline/live logic mismatch
Backtest is no longer measuring the same decision policy the app uses live.
Minor but real accounting bug
Anomaly-cancel leaks entry fees.

So the main blocker is not just thresholds.
It is:

the 5m quant model is not generating actionable directional probability mass, and the backtest framework is not faithfully evaluating the live quant logic anymore.

If you want, I can do the next pass as a concrete repair plan: exact code changes for

simulator.py
paper-trader.ts
and the quickest way to diagnose whether the calibrator is causing the stable-collapse.